explain what github's act on your behalf means (#1588)
semgrep/semgrep-docs: docs/kb/semgrep-appsec-platform/act-on-your-behalf.md

---
description: "Understand GitHub authorization and permissions."
tags:
  - Semgrep AppSec Platform
  - Deployment
---

# What does "Act on your behalf" mean?

> **Act on your behalf** is a permission that GitHub requires of all third-party GH apps that verify an identity, that is, when GitHub is used as an identity provider (IdP). The actual scope of that permission is limited to what the user explicitly permits. As stated in the [GitHub documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/using-github-apps/authorizing-github-apps#about-github-apps-acting-on-your-behalf):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Act on your behalf** is a permission that GitHub requires of all third-party apps that verify a user's identity, that is, when GitHub is used as an identity provider (IdP). The actual scope of this permission is limited to what the user explicitly permits. As stated in the [GitHub documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/using-github-apps/authorizing-github-apps#about-github-apps-acting-on-your-behalf):
```

> The GitHub App can only do things that both you and the app have permission to do.

> This also applies to read and write permissions&mdash;you have to explicitly grant those permissions on a granular level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This restriction also applies to read and write permissions&mdash;for example, you have to explicitly grant read and write permissions on a granular level for an app to act on your behalf.
```

> At the start of your Semgrep onboarding experience, the resource granted is your **email address**, but Semgrep itself never acts on your behalf.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the start of your Semgrep onboarding experience, the resource granted to Semgrep is read access to your **email address**, but Semgrep itself never acts on your behalf.
```

![You grant Semgrep read access to your email address when you sign in for the first time.](/img/new-onboarding.png#md-noborder)
_**Figure**. You grant Semgrep read access to your email address when you sign in for the first time._

## How to detect when an app acts on your behalf

<!-- vale off -->

> When an action is undertaken by an app on your behalf, it adds a label **&mdash; with <span className="placeholder">NAME_OF_APP</span> app**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an action is undertaken by an app on your behalf, GitHub adds a label **&mdash; with <span className="placeholder">NAME_OF_APP</span> app**.
```
